[Music]
nearly every one of your science classes
starts off with the scientific method we
recognize this ask a question form a
hypothesis perform an experiment collect
data draw conclusions and then memorize
a bunch of facts this is really boring
science is not a simple recipe in a
cookbook and learning is not memorizing
facts for tests yet that's exactly what
we do we have to change this we have to
look at how curiosity can ultimately
benefit society by looking towards
tomorrow by going through a path from
involvement to imagination to invention
to innovation and I'd like to illustrate
this by telling you the real story about
how we discovered how gecko stick first
you need to get involved you need to do
curiosity driven research yourself we
know that learning by being an active
researcher is the best way to learn
imagine being in my lab and trying to
discover how gecko sticks is one of our
subjects this is the trusted gecko I'm
gonna put the Gecko on blast you to use
the high-speed camera it can capture up
a thousand pictures in one second there
he goes
okay record it there's the animals toes
so how do their feet stick and unstick
so quickly how do they do this we
wondered it's kind of crazy right it's
hard to believe well it turns out it was
already known that the geckos have hairy
toes and those hairs are really small
compared to your hair and the little
tips at the end are even smaller
well my student Tanya who was not much
older than some of you when she did this
the sophomore undergraduate tried to
figure this out and we told her that in
order to do this you'd have to measure
the force of a single hair now we kind
of only did this jokingly because these
hairs are so small we didn't think it
was possible but Trini didn't know that
and she went on to build the simplest
most beautiful measurement device ever
here it is she took one of those tiny
little hairs and put it on to a probe
and then she began pushing it into the
metal beam now she was very frustrated
for months it didn't stick but she
figured out she had oriented just like
the Gecko grabs on and then it worked
and there's the little split ends
grabbing the beam in that little window
and then she did something magical for
the first time ever she measured the
force of a single gecko hair that
allowed her to discover a completely new
way to stick to something something no
human has ever known before they have
hairy little toes huge numbers of hairs
and each hair has the worst case of
split ends possible a hundred to a
thousand nano tips that an animal has on
one here and two billion total and they
don't stick by glue or by suction or by
velcro just discover they stick by
intermolecular forces alone by Van der
Waals forces and you'll learn this in
chemistry and physics if you take it
it's unbelievable it's a whole new way
of thinking about making an adhesive
well the end of the story there's still
mysteries why are the geckos
looking like this they have bizarre toes
and we don't know why if you'd go into a
museum and look at each gecko species
you see they have all different years
different lengths and thicknesses and
patterns
why I don't know but you should come to
Berkeley and help me figure this out
it's just about right so apply but it's
a mystery there's even more stuff that's
unknown this tarantula also he has hairs
and can stick this way too but recently
was found that they also can secrete
silk from their feet not just there
behind like you know they do and even
where recently my graduate student and
showed that all spiders can secrete glue
and we know nothing about this glue
except that was around way before this
guy millions of years before so don't
stop at the discovery next I imagine the
possible uses for society here is the
first human supported by a gecko
inspired adhesive this is my former
graduate student Keller autumn who's a
professor at Lewis & Clark offering his
second born child for the test
and she's a very good sport but now
imagine all the things you could make
from this not only adhesives but
products and sports and biomedicine
Technology robotics toys automotive
fashion clothes and yes even hair pieces
I swear to you we got a call from
Michael Jackson's hairdresser about hair
pieces before he passed away
who would have guessed from studying
geckos next invent a game-changing
technology device or product like my
engineering colleague at Berkeley Ron
fearing did when he made one of the
first synthetic self-cleaning
dry adhesives after the simplest version
that you see in animals believe it or
not right now because of this work you
can make your own synthetic gecko nano
tape by nano molding with just a few
parts and here's the recipe that we can
give you it's been incredible since we
made this discovery of all the papers
and the work and the different ways to
make it it's emerging into a billion
dollar industry and who would have
imagined that it started because we were
curious about how geckos can run up
walls next we need to innovate create a
business that ultimately benefits
Society did you know there are six
million people per year that have
chronic wounds to me and develop an
infection and infections account for a
hundred thousand hospital deaths imagine
if you could build a company that could
produce a gecko inspired band-aid that
would remove pain and suffering just a
simple invention if you look at the last
three great earthquakes over 700,000
people were trapped and lost their lives
imagine a company that made a search and
rescue robot inspired from a gecko that
could move anywhere and quickly find
individuals that have been trapped that
sometimes survive as long as two weeks
there's a gecko inspired robots sticky
bomb from the Stanford group that can
grab on to any surface now we ran our
own four tab mini bio-inspired design
challenge to get you to think about
these kinds of products we have a winner
here's the winner the winner came up
with this design called sticky seat
really clever
it's a seat that's not only comfortable
but it aids a seatbelt if you were in an
accident in terms of keeping your seat
and moving this is brilliant we didn't
think about this although we might think
about patenting it now but there's a
winner for this and the winner and you
can't you can't make up something like
this the winners name is Harry where is
Harry Harry come here we have a prize
for you where is Harry Perry come here
[Music]
we have a crested gecko for you that has
very cool hairs on congratulations for
Harry
excellent so don't worry if you missed
out on this it's okay because we're
doing another design challenge working
with the San Diego Zoo they're
developing best ideas project in San
Diego but it's going to go national
and I'll leave you with the fact that
you should keep being curious because
curiosity based research leads to the
biggest benefits as we showed you in our
example and you can make a difference
now because like Tanja you don't know
what can't be done
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]